>> Kyle Simpson: Armed with a basic
foundation in programming concepts,
let's turn our attention to a look
at the three pillars of JavaScript.
The three main areas,
units of discussion that you're really
gonna wana spend time digging into.
And again, as I said at the outset of this
course, expectation wise, it's not like
you can spend one day and be just totally
done with any one of these three.
These are weeks, months, potentially
even years of time on each of them.
And you're gonna get them in layers,
you're not gonna have all of one and
then all of another,
it's gonna be layer upon layer.
So as you go throughout your
development career, and
your JavaScript career in particular,
you're gonna see these kinds of things
coming up over and over and over again.
And my hope is that you'll be able to
take this as a reference to come back to.
And again,
the books as a reference to come back to,
as you see those layers being added
on as you go throughout your career.
So the three pillars of JavaScript
we wanna look at, number 1,
we wanna look at types and coercion.
Number 2, we wanna look at the scope and
the closure system.
And number 3, the this and
the prototypes system.
And actually, that's more about
class oriented even than prototypes.
So those are the three main areas that
we will look at through the rest of this
course.
Let's dive into types and coercion.
The three things that we wanna
look at underneath types and
coercion are the primitive types.
And if you remember from
the primer at the top,
we saw primitive types like number and
boolean and string.
We wanna get real clear on what those are.
We wanna talk about how you convert from
one type to another, because basically all
programs have to do some kind of
conversion from one type to another.
And then we wanna check whether or not two
values are equal or one value's less than.
We wanna do some sort of
equality checking on our values.
Those are the three main areas
that we wanna pay attention to.
And I'll just give you a word of caution,
out of the three,
this particular unit
is generally speaking,
one of the lesser focused on things as
most people learn about JavaScript.
And I think it might be one of the more
important of the foundational pillars for
this language.
So it’s really important that you
push against that normal temptation.
Someone might tell you you don’t
need to know about that stuff,
just do it this way.
I think it’s important to push against
that and really dig in here and
understand, these are core
mechanisms to the language.
And it's not gonna be effective for you in
your career if you're writing JavaScript
and you have no idea how it's working or
what it's doing.
So let's dive into types and coercion.
We'll look at primitive types.
Again, we said at the outset
what those are, but
just as a quick kind of review,
we wanna look at the strings and booleans.
And I wanna confront head on this
statement that is thrown around this,
you'll find this in books and blogs.
And you may have run across this
on a Stack Overflow answer or
500 at some point or another.
Somebody will say something in JavaScript,
everything is an object.
That is thrown around as a fact and
it is 100% false.
It is not true in JavaScript
everything is an object.
There are historical reasons
why people think that, but
it really is not actually true.
We do have, indeed primitive types.
So let's look at what some of those are.
You might recall that we
talked about undefined.
Well, we also have the string type,
we have the number type,
the boolean type, the object type.
Those five are pretty solid,
pretty well easy to understand, but
we have a couple that might surprise you.
So we have symbol, which was a brand
new one that was added about two or
three years ago.
It doesn't get a lot of usage, but it is
one of the primitive types in JavaScript.
So every once in a while,
you might run across a symbol.
But what also about null?
You remember undefined was an empty type,
what about null?
Well, that is a primitive type, but
I have that highlighted in orange because
it behaves a little bit strangely
with respect to the type of operator.
It gives us not back what we would expect,
so it's an important type, but
it has some quirks that
we have to be aware of.
And then also function, we know functions
are a thing in our language but,
is it really a primitive type?
Technically it's not, it's actually
technically just a subtype of the object
type which is the same is true for arrays.
Arrays are not their own
official primitive type.
They are a subtype of the object type.
So let's just point out that
the types that we're talking about
are associated with the values themselves,
not with the variables.
So in some programming languages, like for
example Java or C,
you say variable x is gonna hold integers.
And then it can only ever hold integers.
And then you say variable y,
and it can only ever hold boolean or
something like that.
Well it's different in scripting language,
in a dynamically typed language like
we have with JavaScript it's different.
Because here we're not talking about x or
y having a type,
here we're talking about the values
themselves having a type.
So it's not the variables that have types,
it's the values.
So, when I say var v, you might recall
when we declare a variable that
it initially gets assigned
the undefined value and
the undefined value is going to
have type of, quote undefined.
If I assign it a string one, and then I
say type of v, I'm gonna get quote string.
And then if i assign it the number 2,
and i say type of, it's quote number.
And so on for boolean,
we see the object giving us quote object,.
There is one of those ES 6 symbols,
giving us quote symbol.
I wanna highlight the undefined for
just a moment,
because this one's a little bit bizarre.
It's been declared and
it's been given undefined but
there's another case where we can get the
same return result of quote undefined and
that is when the variable
has never been declared.
You might think that should give
a different result, I certainly do, but
it turns out that in either the case where
it's been declared and has no value or
it’s never been declared.
JavaScript sort of treats those
both as the undefined state.
And that can actually lead to
some confusion later on so
it’s good to be aware of that.
Here’s an example,
when we say type of doesn’t exist, there’s
a variable that doesn’t exist, and yet
we're still getting the quote undefined.
We haven't created it with
a var statement and yet
we're still getting quote undefined.
So again, be aware of the difference
between a variable thats been created and
has no value like v in the previous slide
but also variables that you reference.
And you don't often reference variables
that are straight up, never exist, but
you may be mistyped a variable name.
And that will be in that state where
the type of operator would give us quote
undefined.
I mentioned just a moment ago that null
kind of behaves a little bit strange.
We see here that type of v, when the value
is null, we see that it gives us quote,
object instead of what we
might expect of quote null.
This is an historical bug from JavaScript.
There’s not really anything we
can do about [LAUGH] those bugs.
We can’t fix those things because it
would break far too many pieces of code.
And then we see if we assign it a function
to the v variable, that's called
a function expression, by the way,
we'll talk about that later in the course.
Type of v there, we get quote function and
even though function is not
an actual primitive type,
it's a subtype of object as I said.
It does have its own unique return
value here which might be a little bit
surprising but it's actually very useful
because we need to know if we have
a value that can be called as a function.
And then we see line 9,
we create an array, and
typeof is gonna give us quote object here,
because it can't further distinguish
that as a subtype of the object there.
You might think, why did it do it for
functions and not for arrays?
And the answer, as with most things,
is because reasons, because history,
there's a variety of different reasons.
Why these works exist, can't really
change them now because there's so
much JavaScript that that would break.
But again,
we can further distinguish things that
are raised using other built in methods,
like for example, array.isarray.
And we'll talk about about those
sorts of operations as we go forward.